# Battery Charger 

Battery charger ICs are integrated circuits (IC) that are used to charge batteries. There are several types of battery charger ICs. Linear chargers use a voltage-controlled source to force a fixed voltage to appear at the output terminal. Switching chargers use an inductor, transformer, or capacitor to transfer energy from the input to the battery in discrete packets. Some battery charger ICs are designed to charge lithium (Li) ion or lead acid batteries. Others are suitable for charging nickel-cadmium (NiCd) or nickel-metal-hydride (NiMH) batteries. Important features for battery charger ICs include over-voltage protection and over-current protection. Devices with a soft-start feature condition the battery for several minutes before performing a fast charge. Devices with a charge status indicator have a built-in monitor that displays the amount of current supplied and/or the amount of charge applied.

### Switching vs. Linear Chargers

Traditional linear topology battery charger ICs were often valued for their compact footprints, simplicity, and low cost. However, drawbacks of these linear chargers include a limited input and battery voltage range, higher relative current consumption, excessive power dissipation, limited charge termination algorithms, and lower relative efficiency (efficiency ~ [VOUT/VIN] × 100%). On the other hand, switch-mode battery chargers are also popular choices due to their flexible topology, multichemistry charging, high charging efficiencies (which minimize heat to enable fast charge times), and wide operating voltage ranges. Nevertheless, some of the drawbacks of switching chargers include relatively high cost, more complicated inductor-based designs, potential noise generation, and larger footprint solutions. Modern LA, wireless power, energy harvesting, solar charging, remote sensor, and embedded automotive applications have been routinely powered by high voltage linear battery chargers for the reasons stated above. However, an opportunity exists for a more modern switch-mode charger that negates the associated drawbacks.